SPbU: GAME THEORY

Course Description
This is a course on Game theory and its applications. The course is designed for students with
an interest in exploring the mathematical foundations of game theory and its applications, as well
as more advanced and nuanced topics. The first part of the course will contain the basics of game
theory and include the topics such as the Nash equilibrium, backward induction, static and dynamic
games of incomplete information. The second part of the course will be taught by a team of
lecturers, each of whom will present the fundamentals as well as the research frontier and open
questions in their field. The course will also cover the application of game theory to economics
(primarily), political science, computer science, and other fields. Students will have the opportunity
to explore real-world examples of game theory in action and develop a deeper understanding of
the mathematical underpinnings of the field.
The course is taught in Russian, the materials are, as a rule, in English. All communication will
be done via the telegram chat.


Schedule
1. Feb 14: Introduction. Chess. Expected utility theory (brief recap). Games in Extensive form.
Zermello’s theorem. Chomp. [Chapters 1,2,3 in MSZ (Maschler, Solan, Zamir)]
2. Feb 21: Strategic-form games. Equilibrium concepts. Zero-sum games.
3. Feb 28 (online): Mixed strategies. Nash Theorem.
4. Mar 7: Static games with incomplete information.
5. Mar 14: Dynamic games with complete information.
6. Mar 21 (guest lecturer Eugene Zalyubovsky): Dynamic games with incomplete information.
7. Mar 28: Dynamic games with incomplete information - 2.
8. Apr 4 (guest lecturer: Vasily Gusev): Cooperative game theory. Coalition-formation games
9. Apr 11 (guest lecturer: Vasily Gusev): Potential games.
10. Apr 18: Midterm exam.
11. Apr 25 (guest lecturer: Mikhail Panov): Continuous-time games.
12. May 2 (guest lecturer: Alexey Suzdaltsev): Introduction to auction theory and optimal auction design.
13. May 9: Matching market design: 1-sided preferences.
14. May 16: Matching market design: 2-sided preferences.
15. May 23 (guest lecturer: Aleksei Kondratev): Axiomatic mechanism design.
16. May 30: Strategic communication and information design.
Course Objectives
The course is supposed to help you . . .
• understand the key problems and concepts in game theory.
• learn how game theory is applied, primarily in Economics.
• solve game-theoretic problems.
• find new applications, formulate them as game-theoretic problems and address them using
the models and concepts covered in the class.
• see the limitations of game theory.
• get a systematic perspective on the strategic issues in a variety of life situations thereby deepening your understanding of these situations.
